<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>
  <title>Story Twice Told // Cuento Dos Veces Contado</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/book.css" type="text/css" />
  <script src="js/book.js" />
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta name="EPB-UUID" content="36B7DC30-2CE9-4063-92EC-D2705B9288FE" />
</head>

<body dir="ltr" onload="Body_onLoad()">
  <p class="body s1">
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Before I got baptized,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I had a meeting with the priest. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">These meetings are not typically held,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">but seeing as I was a unique circumstance, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">the meeting was arranged.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I went with my mom.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">We drove to St. Stephen’s Episcopalian church on St. Stephen’s Drive.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">We attended this church,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">not because we were especially Episcopalian, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">but because it was the closest to our house. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I could walk home from Sunday school,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">my big sister with me,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">traipsing down narrow potholed roads in our church clothes and church shoes, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">costumes now,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">unzipped from their religious context.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">On the way to the meeting,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">from the backseat, I asked my mom, “Where are we going?”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“To the Priest’s house,” she told me,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">but we were driving the exact same way we took to go to church.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">In the car:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I trade off looking out the window and the ghostly </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">reflection of my face</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">floating in the glass </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">mostly eyes and eyebrows.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I roll the window down and the ghost goes away.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">“It’s not even cold,” I say.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">It turned out that the priest’s house is right next to the church, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">just back behind the parking lot,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">behind the playground that burned down.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">No one knew how the playground caught fire,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">but later when I was in high school my friend told me that she knew how, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">because it was her brother who burned it down, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">which made sense because they lived right across the street at 65 St. Stephen’s Drive</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and her brother was a bit of a pyromaniac.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Antes de que me bautizaron,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">tuve una junta con el sacerdote. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Era una junta especial, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pero viendo que mi caso también era especial, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">convocaran a la junta.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi mamá me llevó.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Manejamos hacia La Iglesia Episcopal de Santo Stefano </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">por la Calle Santo Stefano.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Íbamos allí a esa iglesia no por que era una iglesia episcopal, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">si no porque quedaba cerca de casa.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Podríamos volver caminando, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">mi hermana y yo,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">caminando por las calles angostas y bacheadas, l</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">as ropas de iglesia ahora un disfraz,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">ya sacado de su contexto de religión.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">En el camino hacia la iglesia, pregunté a mi mamá,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">¿“A dónde vamos?”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Me dijo, a la casa del sacerdote,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pero era igual al camino que tomábamos a irnos à la iglesia.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">En el carro:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Miro por la ventana y luego por mi cara</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">flotando como fantasma en el vidrio.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Bajo la ventana y la fantasma se va</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">“No hace ni frio” digo yo.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Se resulta que la casa del sacerdote es el vecino de la iglesia, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">detrás del parqueadero</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y atrás del parque infantil que se quemó.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Nadie sabía como se hubiera incendiado,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pero luego, luego, cuando estaba en el colegio,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">me dijo mi amiga que ella si sabía como, por que era su hermano que lo hizo.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Lo creí por que vivían en frente de la iglesia y también su hermano era medio pirómano.
    </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The priest’s front room looked normal, nothing religious, and the priest did too. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">There was a couch facing 2 chairs and in between them a lamp,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">whose cord tunneled in a lump under the rug </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">on its way to the plug in the wall.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The only special thing about the priest’s front room </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">was the stained-glass window,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">casting streaks of pink and blue onto </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">a little cluttered desk</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">off to the left.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I sat in the gap</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">where the couch cushions met </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">but didn’t fully come together. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">If the spot is available,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I always take it,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and that’s because the gap between couch cushions </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">is the most comfortable spot.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">On the couch:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I look at the stained-glass window and close my eyes </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I see rows and rows of windmills.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I am still looking at the stained-glass, even though my eyes are closed.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">It’s supposed to be black when you hide your eyes, but the light can still peep through
      the crack</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">like breath between closed lips</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">and it makes colors appear in the darkness.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">The windmills are bright and flickery like flame.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I opened my eyes and the windmills disappear.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">In their place was the priest’s round and folded face</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He’d been saying something </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">to my mom.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">On the couch still:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I close my eyes tighter and the rows of </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">windmills back up and get smaller</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">All perfectly straight and as many as can fit on the black screen of my </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">eyelids.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">When the screen fills,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">the windmills shrink again, allowing </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">space for more rows of more </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">windmills.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">And on it goes, the rows filling the darkness </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">between my open eyes and closed eyelids.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">The space endless and ever accommodating </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">the unrelenting accumulation of forever.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">La sala del sacerdote se veía muy normal, nada religioso, y el sacerdote también.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Había un sofá en frente y</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">entre de dos sillones, una lámpara</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">su cable parecía topo pasando por abajo el alfombre hacia el enchufe en el muro.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">La única cosa especial de la sala era el vitral</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pintando rayos rosados y azulados sobre una mesita desordenada</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">a la izquierda.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Me sentí en el hueco del sofá</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Siempre, si podía, me sentaba allí, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">donde los dos cojines se juntan </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">porque así es lo más cómodo.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">Sentado en el sofa:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Miro al vitral</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Cierro mis ojos, pero sigo mirándolo. </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Veo hilera tras hilera de alas de molino.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Dicen que solo ves negro cuando los ojos se cierran,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">pero la luz puede entrar a través de la rajadura del </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">párpado como aire entre labios cerrados</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">y hace aparecer los colores en medio de la oscuridad.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Las alas brillan </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">bastante y como llama </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">parpadean.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Abrí mis ojos y se desaparecieron las alas.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">En su lugar estaba el cara redondo y plisado </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">del sacerdote.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Había estado diciendo algo </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">a mi mama.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">Todavía en el sofa:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Cierro mis ojos con más fuerza y las alas del molino</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">se retiran y se encogieren.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Todas derechitas y tantas como pudieran caber</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">en la pantalla negra que formaban mis párpados. </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Cuando se llenó la pantalla,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">se encogieren otra vez las alas para que cupieran </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">aun más.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Así se fue, hileras llenando la oscuridad </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">entre los ojos y párpados.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">El espacio sin parar, las alas </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">volviendo, siguiendo hasta </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">siempre.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My mom sat in a big arm chair next to the priest.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I think his name was Father Tom, but I couldn’t be sure </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">because there was also Father Paul who looked a lot like </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Father Tom.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">That morning:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I lean in close to the mirror</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">and look at my hairs right down to their </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">follicles, where they sprout out</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">of the hole in </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">my scalp. For every </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">hair, a hole, a head </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">full of holes.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I had never seen the priest this close up before. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My view of him had always been from afar,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">in the pews, and often partially blocked by a head </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">so that I would watch him and see</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">a priest with no chin.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Or, a priest with only half a face, reciting the Lord’s prayer.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I had a chance to see him up close on the way out,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">when he stood there shaking hands </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">at the doors that let forth</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">the tide of Episcopalians,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">picking wedgies and squinting into the late Sunday morning light, and I within it,
      catching only a </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">blurred glimpse of him.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My friend with the pyromaniac brother,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">she told me not to tell anyone that it was her brother </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">who burned down the playground.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I didn’t,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">not that it mattered anyway.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">It had been so long ago by then.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">They’d used the parish dollars to reconstruct it.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I always brought a dollar with me to church.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">A single crisp extraction </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">from my weekly allowance</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">that I put in an otherwise empty purse that I carried </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">as a means of carrying my dollar.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi mama se sentó en un sillón al lado del sacerdote.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Creo que se llamó Padre Tom, pero no podría estar segura </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">porque también era un Padre Paul</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">quien parecía mucho a Padre Tom.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">Aquella manana:</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Me acerco al espejo y miro a mis pelos hasta </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">sus fondos, donde brota desde el hoyito </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">de la cabellera.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Un hoyito por cada pelo, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">una cabeza </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">llena de hoyos.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Nunca había mirado el sacerdote de cerca así.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Siempre lo había mirado de lejos en el banco</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">donde solía que una cabeza de adelante bloqueaba mi vista resultando que pasara todo el
      sermón mirando un sacerdote </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">sin mentón,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">o un sacerdote recitando el padrenuestro de un solo lado de su cara.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Tenía oportunidad a verlo a la salida,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">cuando se estacionaba en la puerta para dejar correr</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">el rio de creyentes acomodándose sus medias, sus calzones después del rato sentados, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">encandilándose con la luz de la mañana,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">el río que me llevaba tal que lo que alcanzara a ver del sacerdote era un </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">vistazo movido.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi amiga, la que tiene el hermano medio pirómano, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">ella me pidió a que no le dijera a nadie.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">A no decir que fue su hermano el que quemó el parque infantil. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">No dije nada, aunque no importaba mucho.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Ya estaba años atrás.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Habían pagado por uno nuevo con el dinero de la parroquia.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Yo siempre traía un dólar conmigo a la iglesia.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Una única y crujiente extracción de mi domingo que era la única cosa </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">que tenía en la cartera que llevé,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y la única razón para que la llevara.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I took out my dollar when the time came. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The time came when the two men,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">on a cue beknown only to them, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">stood</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">up from their deliberate seats at the end of the pews, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">disappeared discretely through a doorway</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">to the left of the crucifix, and returned again,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">on cue,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">bearing gold platters with curled over rims and black velvet lined interiors.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">During collection:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I ready my dollar as the dish approaches,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">handed over, hand to hand, skip a hand, to hand,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">gliding down the pews as if levitating on the notes of </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">the organ and not by the hands that reach and pass </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">this thing impossible to drop.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">The dish bearers flank each side of the pews,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">One down the center aisle, one down the outer aisle, </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">trading their dishes back and </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">forth, back and forth,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">as soon as he passes, he is walking forward a row to </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">receive the other, the same dish he sent down to his </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">partner,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">two rows ago, it’s hard to know,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">now it’s coming back to him, fuller now, my dollar in there, </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">the organist playing, his back to us,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">our backs to him.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Now, why do you want to be baptized?” the priest asked me. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I thought about this,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">which I had not done before.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I had never considered a baptism as something I wanted;</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">it was just something that my mom informed me was happening. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I looked to my mom a beat,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">for both assistance and permission </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">to stretch the truth.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Well,” I began while attempting to level myself on the couch but finding myself </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">already too deeply absorbed</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">into the gap.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“All my relatives are baptized and I don’t want to be left out.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My mom nodded in a way that granted me</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">further permission to elaborate on the truth so I added, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Besides, I’ve always really wanted a godmother and godfather.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">Mientras la colecta:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Sacaba mi dolar cuando era el momento. </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">El momento llegó cuando los dos señores, </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">siguiendo el ritmo que solo ellos sabían,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">se levantaran a pies de sus asientos elegidos á propósito a la orilla de los bancos, </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">se desaparecieran discretamente a través del portal</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">a la izquierda del crucifico,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">y volvieran de nuevo, listos, llevando canastos doradas con sus bordes doblados </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">y línea de terciopelo negro adentro.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Tengo mi dolaré listo mientras el canasto anda </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">acercando, entregada, deslizando de un lado al </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">otro de los bancos como si fuera levitado del </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">ritmo de las notas del órgano y no de las manos </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">que la alcanzaran y la pasaran,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">este objeto, imposible a dejar caer.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Los señores de los canastos se pusieran a los dos lados de </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">los bancos, uno por el surco adentro, el otro por afuera.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Así andaban, pasando sus canastos.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Entregando una, un banco adelante, recibiendo la otra.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Ida y vuelta, como aguja en tejido, siempre un plato en las manos, siempre una fuente </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">flotando en el banco. Nunca vacía,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">el órgano soñando, los canastos llenando.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Por que quieres ser bautizada?” me preguntó el sacerdote.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Pensé en eso por primera vez.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Nunca lo había considerado como algo que quería </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">si non un evento que iba a ocurrir según mi mama.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Le eché un vistazo en lo que pedí </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">ayuda y permiso</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">a exagerar.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Dije “Bueno,” mientras que intentaba a salirme del hueco </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">donde ya profundamente había hundido.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Todos mis parientes lo tuvieran, y yo también quiero uno.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi mama parpadeó para decir que estuvo bien y para darme </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">mas permiso a seguir elaborando la verdad.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Y siempre he querido tener un padrino y madrina,” dije.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">This seemed to do it for the priest because</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">he nodded and told me about the history of baptisms, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">how traditionally they are performed in a river,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">but now they just use a little bowl of holy water. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Do they get the water from a river?” I asked.</p>
    <p class="p6" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He paused, looked to my mom, and said, “Yes.” </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">And then more to himself he said,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“All water comes from the river.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I wondered which river he was referring to exactly but I let it slide </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">in exchange for his unblinking acceptance of my own white lie.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He explained how baptisms play an important role</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">in welcoming new members to the faith </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and perpetuating life after death.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“You see, the religion you are is the religion you are baptized into,” the priest said.
    </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Only once you have been baptized Episcopalian, are you truly an Episcopalian. ”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He paused and his leather shoe toed the lump in the rug where it arched for the cable.
    </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“And when you go to heaven, your spirit will live on through your faith.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He nodded his own head in agreement,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">so that I would see that what he said made sense.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He stood up and mom and I, we did the same,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">just as in church after a prayer, except that</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I had to hoist myself up with my arms, and pump my legs,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">on account of my being so deeply seated within the couch.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Esta calificó como respuesta válida por el sacerdote </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">porque prosiguióa explicarme la historia de los bautismos, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y como antes lo hicieron en el rio,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pero hace algunos años remplazaron el rio con fuentes </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">de agua sagrada.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Pero el agua viene del rio?” le pregunté.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Se paró para mirar a mi mama, y dijo, “Si, el agua viene del rio.” </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Y luego más a su mismo comentó,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Bueno, toda el agua viene del rio.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""><span class="c1">Le iba a preguntar, </span><span class="c1 c2">cual río pues</span><span
        class="c1">, </span></p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pero lo dejé pasar.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Se me explicó que los bautismos </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">desempeñan un papel importante por los creyentes</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">de bienvenida y despedida.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Mira, de que religión eres depende en la religión que tiene tu bautismo,” dijo el
      sacerdote. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“No eres episcopal hasta que estés bautizado episcopal.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Hacía una pausa mientras su zapato de cuero tocaron el topo del alfombre. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Y cuando vayas con dios, tu espíritu sigue por siempre a través de tu fe.” </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Se asintió con su propia cabeza para que viera que lo que dijo tenía sentido.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Se puso a pies y lo seguimos, igual que en la iglesia </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">cuando nos levantamos después de una oración</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">a parte de aquí tenía que luchar un poquito a salirme </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">por culpa de mi asiento profundo en el sofá.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">At night:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I am scared to die.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I think about it before falling asleep.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">It is not so much the act of dying that I am scared of or </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">think about, It is the fact that once you die you are </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">gone</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Forever and ever and ever and </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">ever and I keep repeating the ever’s</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">filling the time, filling my mind, my head heavy on </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">my pillow, eyelashes fluttering against its case,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">with the repetition of ever</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">But no matter how many times I repeat, it will never amount to the </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">forever of time That will go on</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">without me </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">once I’m dead.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Eye blinks, even when closed.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">It was time for the tour.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">We went out the front door and crossed the empty parking lot</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and entered the church through a side door I’d never noticed before.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The door opened up into an unceremonious carpeted room </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">with a vase of plastic flowers on a folding table.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I watched my mom’s hand</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">as it took a papery pink petal between its fingers, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">palpating to confirm that the flowers were</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">in fact, fake.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Then we went into a little hallway where there was a sliding closet door. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“This is where we get ready for the sermon,” the Priest explained.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He slid open the door and all his costumes were hanging up in there</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">—the purple one for lent, the white one for regular Sundays, a few of those; </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">the gold one for Christmas Eve and Easter,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and a red one for an occasion I had never attended church to see.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The other costumes I had seen from the audience, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">from a distance long enough to soften</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">the stiffness of the fabric, its coarseness,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">the wide stitch dragging its off-white trail of thread through </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">the bulky hem of the white sleeve.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The gold platters were stacked on a wide ledge carved out of the wall and below, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">the candle snuffers that the acolytes carry</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">were propped up in an umbrella stand.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">En la noche:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Me asusto de morirme. </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Pienso en lo antes de dormir.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">No es el acto de morirme que me asuste </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">sino la idea de siempre.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Que una vez que te mueras, </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">te vas por siempre y siempre </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">y siempre y sigo repitiendo los siempres llenando el tiempo,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">llenando mi cabeza pesada sobre </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">cabecera pestañas palpitando</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">con la repetición de la palabra</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">pero no importa cuantas veces lo digo nunca alcanzará </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">al tiempo de siempre que va a seguir</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">sin mi</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">una vez que me muera.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Las pestañas palpitan aun con ojos cerrados.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Empezamos el tour. Salimos de la puerta principal </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y cruzamos el parqueadero vacío de carros</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y entramos la iglesia por una puerta que nunca había notado.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">La puerta se abría en un cuarto brusco</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y alfombrado con un vaso de flores de plástico encima</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">de una mesa plegable. Miré como la mano de mi mama tomó el </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">tallo de alambre entre sus dedos</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">a sentir su verdadera falsedad.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Seguíamos por el corredor donde había una puerta corredera de ropera. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Aquí es donde nos preparamos por el sermón,” el sacerdote explicó. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Recorrió la puerta y se veía sus disfraces colgando—</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">el morado por la Cuaresma, el blanco de siempre, varios así;</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">el dorado por la navidad y la Pasque y un rojo por una ocasión que nunca había visto.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Los demás los había visto del público,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">desde una distancia que borra la rigidez de la tela, su aspereza; </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">el punto ancho arrastrando</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">su hilo color crema haciendo la gruesa dobladilla de la manga color blanca.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Los platos dorados estaban amontonados encima </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">un estante y abajo,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">los apagavelas que llevaron los acólitos estaban sostenidos en un paragüero.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The communion wafers were on the ledge too. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I hardly recognized them at first.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">They were in large plastic tub with a screw top cap, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">same as the tubs peanut-butter stuffed pretzels come in.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“My daughter likes these in her lunch,” the Priest said while unscrewing the lid.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He took out a few discs, fine as paper </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and popped two into his mouth.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Here, have a few,” he said and I held out my hands, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">palms up, pinky sides pressed together,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">just as I’d learned to do for communion.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">It felt strange to have more in my hand at one time</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">than I’d accumulate in an entire month of steady church attendance, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">so I ate them slowly which wasn’t hard to do</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">on account of their tasting very </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">stale and dy.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">On the way home, I asked my mom, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“How many days a week is church?” </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“One day a week, 2 sermons on Sunday.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“What does the priest do on the other days?” I asked.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Preparing his sermon,” my mom said. “Practicing and preparing.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">At the pool:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I go under water.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">A clear blue I can’t hear or breath.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I look to the surface </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Slick lid of ice</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I wait in the slow quiet and then it </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">breaks into</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">turbulence like a million marbles bursting free</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">close, but sounds far </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">away I come up for </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">air.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I wore a white dress to my baptism.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My mom had bought two matching ones</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">from a consignment store that my sister and I wore </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">for our Christmas card photo one year.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Only difference was that I didn’t have to wear it with tights, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">since the baptism was in spring.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Allá por el mismo estante, estaban las hostias. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Casi no las reconocí.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Estaban en un grande jarro de plástico, con tapón de rosca </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">como si fueran una botana de la tienda.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Mi hija se les gustan en su lonche,” el sacerdote dijo mientras desenroscando el tapón.
    </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Tomó algunos de los discos delgaditos como una hoja,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y de un solo golpe los pegó dos por su lengua.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Toma,” me dijo. “Ten.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Extendí mis manos, palmas arriba, lados de meniques juntados, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">igual como había aprendido hacer por la comunión.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Se sentía raro a tener en mis manos mas hostias que acumulara </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">aún después un mes de ir a la iglesia,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y por eso los comí despacio, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">lo que por su sabor sin sabor</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">no era muy difícil.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">A la vuelta a casa, pregunté a mi mama, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Cuantos días la semana hacen iglesia ¿”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Uno nomas,” me contestó. “Dos sermones el domingo.” </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Y que hace el sacerdote los otros días?” pregunté. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Preparándose,” dijo mi mama. “Preparando su sermón.”</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">A la alberca:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Me hundo en el agua azul claro</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">donde no respiro ni escucho.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Miro hacia la superficie </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">un cielo como techo de hielo fino.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Espero en el silencio lento y de repente </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">quiebra.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Agua revuelto, burbujas,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">tiradas como canicas,</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">ruido cercas, pero se escucha </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">lejos, subo por </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">aire.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Me vestía en vestido blanco a mi bautismo.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi mamá había comprado dos igualitos para que </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">mi hermana y yo pudiera estar correspondiente </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">por la foto de la tarjeta de Navidad.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">La única diferencia era que no tenía que ponerme en medias, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">dado que estábamos en primavera.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The baptism was held after normal church service,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">after everyone had left. Only the families with infants and my family remained. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">We scooted into the front pews and it all felt so unprofessional I thought,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">like a dress rehearsal instead of the real thing.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Except the priest.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He didn’t look at me as someone who knew the color of his sofa, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">who had seen the closet from where he’d picked out today’s robe, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">the usual white.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He looked at me the same as he looked at the babies,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">who had no idea what holy water was, or where it came from.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The mothers and fathers held their infants and we gathered </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">around a little basin of water suspended in a mini altar.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The babies were dressed in soft white cotton </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">with bunchy little socks on their feet</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">that could have made some nice finger puppets for me.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I rolled out onto the sides of my feet and balanced like this, on the outer edges of the
      soles </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">of my kitty-heeled shoes. I felt very big and embarrassing.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I wanted to be a baby in soft cotton </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">held in my mother’s arms.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The priest peeled the first baby out of the crook of its father’s elbow. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He hovered the baby right over the basin of holy water,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">but instead of dunking its head in,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">he just scooped up some holy water and splashed it </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">onto the baby’s matted little head.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The baby squirmed and kicked but did not cry out </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">so I figured that holy water must not to be too cold.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The priest went to hand the brand, new Episcopalian baby</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">back to the father but the mother instinctively reached out her arms, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">catching the priest</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">in a moment of vacillation not knowing </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">whose arms to put the baby in.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Now the baby did start to cry, and the mother armed with responsibility </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">took the small thing off the priest’s hands.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">El bautismo tomó lugar después de la mesa normal, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">después que todos había partidos.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">La congregación se filtraba hasta que las únicas familias </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">que quedaron eran las familias con bebés</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y yo con mi familia.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Nos fuimos hasta los primeros bancos, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">todo muy burdo pensé yo,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">como si fuera banco a un partido de futbol en vez de un bautismo. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">No sentía nada de obra final.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Aparte del sacerdote.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">No me miraba como alguien que sabía el color de su sofá, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">que había visto de donde sacó la mera sotana que ahora llevó, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">el blanco de siempre.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Me miraba igual que miraba a los bebés,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">a quien ni tenían idea de lo que es agua sagrada, ni de donde viene.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Las mamás y los papás abrazaron sus bebés y acercamos alrededor </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">un pequeño fuente del agua suspendido en un altarcito.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Los bebés se vestirían en algodón blanco y suave,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">con pliegues de encaje y calcetines arrugados por sus pies de hada.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Me equilibraba sobre los lados de mis tacos bajos. Sentía mi tamaño como una bochorno.
    </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Quisiera estar un bebe vestido en algodón,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">abrazado en los brazos de mi mama.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">El sacerdote peleó el primero bebe del recodo del brazo de su papa. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Lo sobrevoló el bebe sobre el cuenco de agua sagrada,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pero en vez de empapando su cabeza,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">lo mojó el frente con algunas salpicaduritas y ya. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Bautizado.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">El bebe se retorció y pegó sus pies de hada al aire, pero no lloró, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">lo que me significó que el agua sagrada no era tan fría.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">El sacerdote pasó el nuevo Episcopal a su papa,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pero se extendió a la misma vez las manos de la mama lo que agarró </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">el sacerdote en un momento de incertidumbre y ahora si,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">el bebe empezó a llorar,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">lo que dio a la mama su oportunidad claro</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">a arrancar su responsabilidad de los brazos vestidos del sacerdote.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I felt nervous as my turn approached. I was the elephant in the room, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">this enormous overgrown baby.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">If only someone had just asked why, if someone could have just said</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">‘Well you sure are a big one, aren’t you?”, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I could’ve explained that actually I was born a long time ago, and it’s only now</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">7 and a half years later, that my parents,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">mostly my mom, got around to getting me baptized. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">But nobody asked.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My appointed godparents rose up from the pew</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">when the priest announced me. They came to stand by my side.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My godmother is my paternal aunt, whose birthday is a day before mine</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and my godfather is my uncle, no blood relation of mine, but from my mom’s side. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">It was strange to see the two sides side by side like that.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Like two days in a row and no night in between, it didn’t make sense.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">At this age:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I believe in Heaven not because it’s what the Bible says </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">But because I am too small to fathom</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">how people could write stories and sing songs and build </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">buildings and pray prayers</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">for something that could </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">might possibly </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">did</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">not </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">exist.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The priest dipped his finger in the holy water </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and fingerpainted a cross on my forehead.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">The water felt cool and dewy for a moment, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and then dripped down the bridge of my nose</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and slipped onto my eyelid, where it balanced until </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I blinked</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and it slid down my cheek like a tear.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I had to resist the urge to wipe if off, because, what a waste. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I don’t think smeared off holy water does any good.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">After the ceremony everyone relaxed and cooed at the adorable baptized babies.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My uncle, now godfather, picked me up</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and pretended to dunk me head first into the holy water</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> which made me feel better,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">like finally someone had acknowledged my tremendous size.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Me sentía nerviosa mientras que mi turno se acercaba. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Era el elefante en la sala, esta bebe grandulona.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Si alguien me hubiera preguntado dicho algo,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">si alguien me hubiera preguntado: ‘como creciste tanto ¿’ </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pudiera explicar que de hecho nací hace algunos años,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y apenas ahora, siete años y media después, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">mis papas—mayormente mi mama,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">se organizaron a bautizarme, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">pero nadie me preguntó.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi padrino y madrina designado se pararon del banco</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y acercaron al altarcito cuando el sacerdote me presentó.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi madrina es mi tía paternal, la que tiene su cumpleaños un día antes del mío,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y mi padrino es mi tío, no es un consanguíneo mío, pero viene del lado de mi mama. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Era raro a ver los dos lados de la familia así hombro à hombro,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">como dos días seguidos sin una noche a separarlos.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">A esta edad:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Creo en el cielo no porque es lo que dice la Biblia, </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">sino porque estoy demasiado pequeña para entender</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">como la gente pudiera escribir historias y cantar canciones y construir </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">edificios y orar oraciones</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">por algo que posiblemente </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">no </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">exista.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">El sacerdote mojó su dedo en el agua sagrada </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y pintó el cruce en mi frente.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">El agua sentía fresca como rocío hasta que</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">se goteó en mi parpado, donde se equilibró hasta que</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">parpadeé</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y se deslizó por mi cachete como lagrima lenta.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Después la ceremonia todo se relajaron </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y arrullaban a los bebes bautizados.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi tío ahora padrino me agarró en sus brazos</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y fingió a hundirme de cabeza en el agua sagrada. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Eso me hizo sentir mejor.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Que por fin alguien se daba cuenta de mi </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">tamaño tremendo.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">At a stop sign:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">We drive home from the baptism. </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Mom said not to walk.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">We pull up behind a truck who stops </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">long enough to open his door just enough to slam it back shut.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">The air was getting in.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">We had a party in our back patio with my new godparents</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and our other relatives. It felt like a mix between my birthday party and Easter. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My grandma gave me a little pink bible that has ‘My Old Testament’</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">embossed on the cover in gold print.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">You open it up and the whole bible is right there,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">typed out in miniature letters on to crinkly pages thin as crepe paper.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“It can fit in your pocket, but the magnifying glass you’ll need to read it won’t,” my dad
      said.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He is not a religious man, I later realized, though he has deep beliefs.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">He always stayed seated in the pews during communion.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My uncle turned godfather,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I later discovered once he wasn’t anymore, </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">had been an alcoholic. He gave up drinking</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and found God through a Bible study and</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">joined a mega church that has Christian rock concerts</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">built into the Sunday service.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">At the library:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">I sit next to a man surrounded by books scribbling away like a college student.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">The books I realize are all the same, are all different versions of the same.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Bibles. He has one open to a page and off the page I read—</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body— </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">but then his hand</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">covers the rest.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">My aunt turned godmother got in a disagreement with my Dad </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">over the circumstances of my grandmother’s will.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">She thought it meant one thing, and my dad thought it said </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">quite clearly something else.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">A una señal de alto:</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Manejamos a casa después del bautizo. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mama no nos dejo caminar.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Llegamos detrás una camioneta que para lo suficiente </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">para abrir su puerta lo suficiente para cerrarla de nuevo.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Estaba dejando entrar el aire.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Tuvimos una fiesta en el patio con mis nuevos padrinos y mis parientes. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Se sentía como mezcla de mi cumpleaños y la Pasque.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi abuela me regaló una rosada biblia pequeñita que dijo</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">‘Mi Antiguo Testamento’ grabado en el forro en letras doradas. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">La abres y allí esta la biblia entera,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">escrito en letras chiquititas en hojas mas finas que pétalo de flor.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">“Se cabe en tu bolsita, pero la lupa que vas a ocupar a leerle, no,” dijo mi papa.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">El no es un hombre religioso, me daba cuenta luego, aunque tenga sus creencias profundas.
    </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Siempre se quedaba sentado mientras la comunión.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi tío, ahora padrino era un alcohólico.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Pero luego dejó de tomar y encontró dios a través </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">un estudio de la Biblia.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Ahora toma pura agua con gas.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p3" style="">En la biblioteca:</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Me siento a una mesa, a lado de un señor </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">trabajando, pero como burro, rodeado de libros.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Veo que los libros son versiones de la misma cosa, </p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">la Biblia.</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">Tiene una abierta a una pagina y esta escribiendo. Alcanzo leer— </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Se siembre un cuerpo natural,</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">se resucita un cuerpo espiritual. Si hay cuerpo—</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">pero luego su mano tapa</p>
    <p class="p1 p4" style="">lo demás.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Mi tía, ahora madrina discutió con mi papa</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">sobre los detalles del testamento de mi abuela. </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Ella pensó que dijo una cosa, y mi papa pensó </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">que claramente dijo otra cosa.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">I didn’t see my godmother aunt for several years and didn’t respond to her messages
      either.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">Then my dad forgave her</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">and she came back to Christmas dinner as if nothing had ever happened.</p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style=""> </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">No miraba a mi tía mientras algunos años </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">hasta que mi papa la perdonó </p>
    <p class="p1 p2" style="">y regresó a la cena navideña como nunca nada había pasado.</p>
  </p>
</body>

</html>